Welcome back everyone.
It's time to test your new skills with some function practice problems learning functions increases
your price on skills exponentially.
This also means that the difficulties or the problems you can solve also increases drastically.
Let's get some practice of converting problem statements into Python code.
We'll go through a series of function practice exercises.
Then after this lecture we'll go through the solutions.
Now there are two options for this material.
One after viewing this lecture you can try out the exercises yourself and then go through the solutions
lecture afterwards.
Or if you're feeling a little bit uncomfortable the material still that's no problem.
Just treat the solutions lecture as a code along lecture for a more guided practice approach again.
If you're still feeling a little fuzzy all the concepts you can skip forward to the solutions lecture
and treat it as a CO-2 long or we're going to break down each step for the function.
Practice problems with that being said let's go ahead and jump over to the functions exercises so we
can quickly go through them together.
All right underneath your Paice on level 1 folder you should find a file called function dasht tasks
start PI and basically it contains a list of comments and tasks.
So your first one you need create a function that takes in two integers.
Or you can have some skeleton code here for you and it returns a boolean true.
If there is 10 and false if there is something other than 10 so let's check 10 then Task 2 is a very
similar except you're going to check to see if these two numbers sum is 10.
You return true if there is 10.
Otherwise you are going to return the actual some value.
So the first one should just be returning true or false.
This other one is going to return either true or some other some value that is not 10 task 3.
Create a function that takes in a string and returns back the first character of that string in uppercase.
So you're going to need to use indexing as well as the thought upper method for this task for its creative
function that takes in a string and returns the last two characters.
If there are less than two characters return the string error and you can use this link.
Right here there's a stack overfilling for help on how to actually grab the last characters of a string.
Again you're going to create a function takes a string and return the last two characters.
However your first can to check if there's less than two characters.
If that's the case you return back error task find is given a list of integers.
Return true if the sequence 1 2 3 is somewhere in the list.
This one is probably the trickiest of all these tasks so you may want to try to break it down into smaller
subproblems tasks 6 is given two strings.
Create a function that returns the difference in length between the strings.
So this difference in length should always be a positive number.
So there's a hint.
Maybe you want to search how to do an absolute value in Python.
That's technically something we haven't covered yet.
It's something however you should be able to easily google search or search on stack overflow for finding
the absolute value I remember for finding the length of a string you can just use the LDN function task
7 is given a list of integers if the length of the list is an even number.
Return the sum of that list.
It's the link for the list as odd return the max value in that list.
So it's going to be either the sum or the max value depending on the actual length of the list.
OK so you have 7 tasks there.
I would say probably the toughest one is task number 5 but they tend to get harder as you go along.
We tried to start off easy and then build the complexity as we go forward.
If you have any questions feel free to post the Kewney forums that please make sure you watch the upcoming
solution's lecture first.
We'll see you there.